Replace `Hub` docs with `Scopes` (#12377)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/android/enriching-events/scopes/index.mdx

---
title: Scopes
description: "SDKs will typically automatically manage the scopes for you in the framework integrations. Learn what a scope is and how you can use it to your advantage."
---

When an event is captured and sent to Sentry, SDKs will merge that event data with extra
information from the current scope. SDKs will typically automatically manage the scopes
for you in the framework integrations and you don't need to think about them. However,
you should know what a scope is and how you can use it to your advantage.

## What's a Scope?

Scopes hold useful information that gets sent along with the
event. For instance, [contexts](../context/) and
[breadcrumbs](../breadcrumbs/) are stored on
the scope. When a scope is forked, it inherits all data from its parent scope.

## How Scopes Work

> Scopes are basically a stack of data that is attached to events. When an event is captured, the SDK will merge the data from the active scopes into the event. This allows you to attach data to events that is relevant to the context in which the event was captured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scopes are basically stacks of data that are attached to events. When an event is captured, the SDK will merge the data from the active scopes into the event. This allows you to attach data to events that is relevant to the context in which the event was captured.
```

When you call a global function such as `Sentry.captureException`, internally Sentry discovers the active scopes and uses them when capturing the event.

## Different Kinds of Scopes

The Sentry SDK has three different kinds of scopes:

- [Global scope](#global-scope)
- [Isolation scope](#isolation-scope)
- [Current scope](#current-scope)

> The Android SDK does not fork scopes on its own so you may set data on any of the scopes. The default the SDK writes to from its top level API is [current scope](#current-scope).

Author: Thanks, I replaced it with "The Android SDK writes to [current scope](#current-scope) by default when using top level.".

Please let me know if you would like to see any further changes on it.

> The Android SDK does not fork scopes on its own so you may set data on any of the scopes. The default the SDK writes to from its top level API is [current scope](#current-scope).

Author: ```suggestion
The Android SDK does not fork scopes on its own so you may set data on any of the scopes. The Android SDK writes to [current scope](#current-scope) by default when using top level.
```

> The Android SDK does not fork scopes on its own so you may set data on any of the scopes. The Android SDK writes to [current scope](#current-scope) by default when using top level.

Author: ```suggestion
The Android SDK does not fork scopes on its own so you may set data on any of the scopes. The Android SDK writes to [current scope](#current-scope) by default when using top level API like `Sentry.setTag`.
```

### Global Scope

The global scope is applied to _all_ events, no matter where they originate. You can use it to store data that should apply to all events, such as environmental information.

### Isolation Scope

The isolation scope is used to isolate events from each other. For example, each request in a web server might get its own isolation scope, so that events from one request don't interfere with events from another request.

### Current Scope

The current scope is the local scope that is currently active. You can modify the current scope via `Sentry.configureScope(scope -> { ... })`.

## How Scope Data is Applied to Events

> Global scope, isolation scope and current scope are combined before an event (like an error or transaction) is sent to Sentry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global scope, isolation scope, and current scope are combined before an event (like an error or transaction) gets sent to Sentry.
```

In most cases, setting something on current scope replaces the same thing that may have been set on isolation or global scope. If it hasn't been set on current scope, the value on isolation scope takes precedence over the one from global scope. If there also isn't any value on isolation scope, the one from global scope is used if present.

> Note, there are exceptions to this, where values from all scopes are merged. This is the case for breadcrumbs, tags, extras, contexts, attachments and event processors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note, there are exceptions to this, where values from all scopes are merged. This is the case for breadcrumbs, tags, extras, contexts, attachments, and event processors.
```

> ```java

Reviewer 2: Should we also add Kotlin samples here?

Author: Yeah, let's do it in a follow up PR, I've created https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/issues/4067 so we don't forget.

Sentry.configureScope(ScopeType.GLOBAL, scope -> {
  scope.setExtra("shared", "global");
  scope.setExtra("global", "data");
});

Sentry.configureScope(ScopeType.ISOLATION, scope -> {
  scope.setExtra("shared", "isolation");
  scope.setExtra("isolation", "data");
});

Sentry.configureScope(ScopeType.CURRENT, scope -> {
  scope.setExtra("shared", "current");
  scope.setExtra("current", "data");
});

Sentry.captureException(new Exception("my error"));
// --> Will have the following extra:
// { shared: 'current', global: 'data', isolation: 'data', current: 'data' }
```

## Configuring the Scope

There are two main ways to interact with the scope. You can modify the current scope via `Sentry.configureScope(scope -> { ... })` and use setters on the resulting scope, or you can use global methods like `Sentry.setTag()` directly, which will set on the respective scope under the hood (which will be the isolation scope).

> You can, for instance, add custom tags or inform Sentry about the currently authenticated user.

Reviewer 2: Looks like the `PlatformContent` link doesn't work here anymore

Author: Seems to also not have worked before as it's not showing up in current deployed docs. Duplicated Java content into here.
